thousands of protesters have gathered in
Tel Aviv to express their anger at the
Israeli government and to demand the
removal of prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu family members of those killed
on October the 7th also attended they
blame the government for security
failures ahead of the attack by Hamas
activists gathered under a large sign
that read bring them home referring to
captives held in Gaza Bernard Smith was
at the
demonstration
relatives and Friends of supporters of
the captives in Gaza are here every
night but on a Saturday night it's the
main one and this is the 12th Shabbat as
Israelis call it that they've had to do
this now of course last Saturday all the
hope and the talk was about the
prospects for a possible ceasefire we
know we were talking about how uh caty
American and Israeli officials had met
on one side how representatives from
Hamas have met Egyptian security
officials uh in Cairo and how there was
a suggestion that Israel was offering a
onewe ceasefire in return for about 40
captives particularly women the elderly
and the sick and how Hamas was demanding
a complete ceasefire a cessation of all
hostilities before they would go any
further well it's gone pretty quiet
since then we've not heard much in
recent days and there is enormous
frustration from the relatives and the
friends here we people have been talking
about how they want them released now
we've had one former uh Army Admiral in
the Navy saying that we should propose a
prisoner release that Hamas will not
turn down every day is a nightmare for
the captives and of course the
psychological fear that their relatives
or friends are dying in Gaza at least
six captives have been reported dead
this week there's no proof of their
death but those are the reports coming
from Gaz and it scares people well
Gideon Levy is a columnist at the
newspaper haret joins us now live from
Tel Aviv good to have you with us let's
start with the spike in the casualty
toll and the death toll of Israeli
soldiers in Gaza what kind of impact is
that having on public opinion
there it is growing but it doesn't have
yet an impact on the support of the vast
majority of Israelis in continuing this
War uh when we speak about the culties I
I cannot prevent saying something
personal in this weekend there were 600
Palestinian killed in Gaza so 13
soldiers is a hell of a price for Israel
but let's not lose proportion 600 people
in Gaza in this
weekend is a big number indeed Gideon
we've seen protesters out on the streets
in Israel the pressure no doubt is
building on netan how long do you think
it can
last you see Sami the pressure is less
than it seems from the outside I'm quite
surprised that the pressure until now is
limited we are after a year of a protest
against Netanyahu and in those times it
was much much bigger and stronger and
more vocal and more
influential there is a certain pressure
concerning only one issue releasing the
hostages all the rest is untouched I
mean obviously the sacrifice of Gaza
doesn't
anybody in Israel but even losing
soldiers which is so horrible for every
family and every every individual is not
a leverage right now for a growing
process not yet no a protest going
protest not yet the operation hasn't
been able to release captives so far the
only captives who have been released
were done through a deal what's your
overall analysis of the military
operation is it failing to achieve its
military
objectives I never s so Sami from the
beginning I thought that first of all
Israel has to make a choice has to have
its priorities either crashing Hamas
will it mean whatever it means or
releasing the hostages you cannot have
them both and Israel misled the people
the government the Army as if both are
going hand to hand but that's not the
case we are reaching a point in which
it's very clear that Israel is
preferring now continuing the war over
releasing the hostages and this must be
sa it's a very
Cru choice but Gideon when we talk about
crushing Hamas or releasing the captives
they've achieved neither so far
right they achieved very little for sure
relatively to the price that it's being
paid that was paid in terms of human
lives destruction hatred out Israel all
over the world I mean those all things
will be counted after the war and
evaluated after the war and the price is
so heavy and the achievements so far are
so
done where do you think overall this
strategy will lead will it lead to a
situation where Israel will be for
forced because of eventual buildup of
external International pressure to end
this campaign in Gaza without having
released the captives without having
destroyed Hamas and having lost a lot of
global
support but first of all Sami I don't
see this pressure working until now
because there is not a real pressure as
long as the Americans are letting Israel
continue the war and they are letting
Israel continueing the war there is not
a meaningful pressure over Israel yes
the Americans pay their lip service in
terms of try to kill as little civilians
as you can very nice very human very
liberal but Israel is continuing
obviously totally ignoring this advice
from the White House and I don't see a
pressure when it will turn into a real
pressure Israel will have to stop and
very clear that this stage is not too
far but the question s what comes next
okay Israel will stop the the the
fighting and then what Israel will
withdraw from the Gaza Strip and leave
it to become a
Somalia who is going to replace the
Israeli Army nobody in Israel has
answers for this what do you make of the
suggestions that Israel is working on
establishing a buffer zone there has
been discussion about that does that
necessitate Israel leaving behind troops
along the eastern and northern border of
Gaza it's unbelievable how Israel never
learns anything I mean we had this
buffer zone for years in Lebanon in
southern Lebanon it didn't help anything
and and and it brought us to more and
more Wars the problem in Gaza is that
all Gaza is so narrow that that if you
cut now a buff Zone
what will be left for the 2.3 million
people to leave and do we really believe
that we will be more protected with a
buffer zone after we build this this
unbelievable barrier for billions of
dollars which was supposed to guarantee
Total Security to Israel nothing will
guarantee security buffer zone another
barrier under this the surface behind
the surface above the Surface by the end
of the day we have to get to any kind of
a political settlement if not we will
continue from war to
war thank you very much G and leave for
your thoughts on
that thank you